The guys in the last video we implemented these sidebar widgets.
Now what we want to do is create a custom home page and then add those widgets to the positions that
we added.
All right so let's go ahead and create a new file and we're going to save this as front page dot php
.
And just from creating that if we go and we reload the home page it goes completely blank.
Because it's looking to this file.
So what we're going to do is copy what we have in page dot ph P and paste it in there.
All right.
And then if we go and reload.
Now this doesn't look very good because where we're showing the posts with just the page formatting
.
So what we need to do is let's go into pages.
We're going to create two new pages this one will be called home.
We'll just say this is the home page publish.
And then let's create a new one called Blog and publish.
And then what we'll do is go to settings and then reading and right here front page display We're going
to set to a static page for front page.
We're going to choose home for post page.
We're going to choose blog and then we're going to save it.
All right now we're going to go to appearance menus and say let's see we're going to take the blog and
add that to the menu.
We'll put that right there save.
And now if we go back and reload now we get the home page.
And if we click on blog that brings us to the blog.
All right so that's how we can handle that.
Now we want to make this look a little different.
I want to have a showcase widget up here and also I want to get rid of the side bar and have three boxes
here three different widgets at under this content.
All right so let's go to front page ph P
And what we're going to do is get rid of the main class because that's what limits this to this width
.
So we're going to get rid of that and then we're going to completely get rid of this side Dave.
All right so we go and we look at it now.
Now there's no more sidebar.
All right.
So let's do our showcase widget.
That's going to go.
Let's see.
We're going to go right here.
All right and I'm actually going to copy from Index I'm just going to grab this
little piece then
and then we'll just want to change the ID from side bar to showcase.
Same thing here.
OK so that takes care of the showcase widget.
Now we're also going to want our three boxes which we're going to put down here right above the last
div..
OK so I'm going to paste this in three times
.
This one will be box one
two
and three.
OK I will save that.
Now let's go to the back end go to parents and then widgets.
And we're going to grab a text and put that right and showcase and then I'm just going to pay some code
in here and not some code but just snatched him out.
Just a welcome with an H1 and then a paragraph and a link.
Save that.
Now we're going to grab another tax.
Put that in Box 1 and we're going to put a title in here we'll say Box 1 heading and then I'll just
paste some simple text in there.
OK let's do the same thing for box too
.
All right.
And then for Box three I'm going to do something different.
I'm going to grab the recent post widget and put that in there and let's set that title to latest news
.
OK we'll save that to go to the front and reload.
And now we have our widgets.
OK so they don't look too good.
We need to style them.
So let's go to style C Ss
and I'm going to paste in the styling for the showcase first.
We gave it a background padding of 40 pixels margin bottom and aligned everything to the center.
Same thing with the H-1.
Now for the box model the box widgets.
OK so the class box we just set to 32 percent with float left and then the H 3s Were just centered added
a background and some padding.
So let's save that reload and there we go there's our home page and you can see down here we have the
latest news we can click on there and we can go to the different posts.
This is the gallery blog posts.
And just to make this look a little better.
I'm going to go to where we put the side widget ally and we're just going to add a box high
ups and now that looks better.
All right.
So it's actually set that to three.
So this isn't the best walking style but the point of this whole project isn't the design or style or
you know to create something beautiful it's to get you familiar with the functionality of creating a
WordPress theme.
All right so we're going to have one more video and that's going to be for the comments because right
now on our blog if we go to a regular post there's no comment functionality.
All right so that will be the last video and we'll get to that next.